# Quickstart Guide
Welcome! In this guide I'll explain to you the ways Vimo adds to vanilla-vim.
I'll assume some basic Vim knowledge. If something is not clear feel free to
[open an issue](https://github.com/gosukiwi/vimo/issues/new).

## Namespaces and Coherent Bindings
All of Vimo features use _coherent bindings_, this means, it tries to build a
set of _mnemonic rules_ so you can easily remember the commands. Adhering to
Vi's original philosophy.

All of Vimo commands start with `<space>`, this is what in Vim jargon is called a
_leader key_.

The first letter after the space is the _namespace_, some examples are `f` for
files, `b` for buffers, `w` for windows, `r` for Ruby and so on.

After the namespace comes the command, some examples are `<space>fr` for `file
rename`, `<space>ff` for file find and `<space>wv` for `window vertical split`.

## Working with Files
As you have seen before, the namespace for files is `f`. To open up the file
browser use `<leader>fb` for `file browser`. 

Note that `<leader>` is the same as `<space>`. Because you can change the
default leader key if you want, I will call it `<leader>` from now on.

The file browser quite minimal, it allows for navigation though a directory
structure and opening and creating files.

You can fuzzy find files with `<leader>ff`, this one is very convenient and is
the one you want to use most of the time.

You can rename the file in the current buffer with `<leader>fr` which stands for
`file rename`. Likewise, you can delete the current buffer and it's file with
`<leader>fd` which reads as `file delete`.

## Searching
Searching is easy in Vimo. You can use Vim's `/` to search for stuff in the
current buffer. Notice that as you type, it highlights the matches. You can go
to the next match by pressing `n` and the previous by pressing `N`. Both of
these commands will center the screen for you after each search so you don't get
confused by the screen jumping around. Once done, you can use `<leader>sc` to
clear the highlight.

Besides Vim's built-in functionality, you can use `<leader>ss` to search for the
word under the cursor in NORMAL mode. You can also use it with a selection in
VISUAL mode!

It will search in all of the current working directory files and report all
found files in a little window at the bottom of the buffer (Vim calls it
quickfix list).

This search is smart enough to ignore files in your `.gitignore` file.

`<leader>ss` is great, but it searches in similar filetypes by default, this
means that if you run it in a Ruby file, it will search only `*.rb` files. If
you want to search for all files, you can use `<leader>sa` for `search all`.

Another thing you can do is _find and replace_. Once you have performed a
search, you can replace whatever you searched for in the files with a new value,
to do this, use `<leader>sr` for `search replace`. It will ask for a replacement
string and then ask for confirmation on each replace, that way you can see what
you are doing! Once done, you can save all buffers with `:bufdo update`.

## Tags
This is very related to searching. It allows to use `tags` instead of text to do
operations. A `tag` is a class name, a method name, or a variable name in your
code. A `tagfile` is generated by using `ctags`, an UNIX tags generator which is
smart enough to find out tags about most programming langauges out there, like
Ruby, PHP, Javascript, C and so on.

You don't have to worry about keeping up this file, Vimo does that automatically
for you in an asyncronous fashion, so it doesn't block the UI.

To find the tag under the cursor use `<leader>tt` or `<leader>tg` for `tag go`.
If there are many matches, a list of matches will be displayed where you can
choose which one you want to go to.

You can navigate tags with `<leader>tn` for `tag next` and `<leader>tN` or
`<leader>tp` for `tag previous`.

You can go back to the previous tag with `<leader>tb` for `tag back`.

You can see all the matches for the current tag using `<leader>tl` which stands
for `tag list`.

You can search tags with `<leader>ts` for `tag search`. Note that this will not
go to the first match if there are several matches, in which case you need to
use `<leader>tl` to list all tags so you can see where to go from there.

## Working with Buffers

## Working with Windows

